README.md, before:

![AgenaTrader](./sources/images/logo_100.png)

# Live System
To get started, check out: [https://agenatrader.github.io/AgenaScript-documentation/index.html](https://agenatrader.github.io/AgenaScript-documentation/index.html)

# Documentation
MkDocs is a fast, simple and downright gorgeous static site generator that's geared towards building project documentation.
Documentation source files are written in [Markdown](https://guides.github.com/features/mastering-markdown/) format, and configured with a single YAML configuration file.
The tutorials in the sources directory of this repository, are built with mkdocs and publicly hosted on GitHub Pages at [https://agenatrader.github.io/AgenaScript-documentation/index.html](https://agenatrader.github.io/AgenaScript-documentation/index.html).

This description will show you how to create static websites and deploy it to the live system.

## Preparation
### Editor
To edit these files you can use the GitHub Online Editor but we recommend to use a separate text editor.
We recommend the text editor **Atom**. [You can download it here.](https://atom.io)

![Atom](./sources/images/logo_atom.png)

### Installation
The following things are prerequisites:
* Install [GitHub Client](https://desktop.github.com), create a GitHub user and checkout the repository
* Install [Pandoc](http://pandoc.org/installing.html)
* Install [Python](https://www.python.org/downloads/)
* Install Python package [mkdocs](http://www.mkdocs.org) using pip

After the installation of all packages we are able to start to parse our data and to deploy our site.

# Getting Started
Clone the master repository to your local computer.
Now that we have everything right in place, we are going to modify files and deploy the new site.
In the following you will see a detailed description on how to build and deploy data into the gh-pages site.
If you have no time just go directly to [Short version on how to deploy](#short-version-on-how-to-deploy)

## Detailed description
### Create branch gh-pages
You just need to do the following step if the gh-pages branch was not created before.
Our static website will be displayed via the gh-pages branch. So we need to create the branch by using the following commands via command line.
```bash
git checkout master # you can avoid this line if you are in master
git subtree split --prefix output -b gh-pages # create a local gh-pages branch containing the splitted output folder
git push -f origin gh-pages:gh-pages # force the push of the gh-pages branch to the remote gh-pages branch at origin
git branch -D gh-pages # delete the local gh-pages
```

### Parsing markdown to static website
All documents in this repository are written in markdown format and stored in the sources directory of this repository.
To parse these markdown files into static websites we need mkdocs to do this work for us. mkdocs will parse these markdown files, translate it into static websites and store it into the site directory.
All configuration is done in a single [YAML configuration file](mkdocs.yml) to configure the parsing process.
Open Console, navigate to your YAML configuration file and build the markdown files using the mkdocs build command.
```bash
mkdocs build
```
This will create a new directory named *site*.
If you are getting a warning that the *site directory* has already created, you can use the `clean` parameter to delete this directory before recreation.
```bash
mkdocs build --clean
```

### Parsing markdown to ebook (epub)
Now open the documents folder and modify the release date in the **epub_title.txt file**.
Afterward go to your source folder, open a console and create an ebook in \*.epub format:
```bash
pandoc -S --epub-cover-image=../documents/epub_cover.png --epub-stylesheet=../documents/epub_styles.css -o ../documents/agenascript-documentation.epub ../documents/epub_title.txt index.md handling_bars_and_instruments.md events.md strategy_programming.md keywords.md drawing_objects.md hints_and_advice.md
```

### Validate ebook (epub)
We recommend to validate the ebook using **pagina EPUB-Checker**. [You can download it here.](http://www.pagina-online.de/produkte/epub-checker/#c773)

### Parsing markdown to word file
Move to your source folder, open a console and create a Word document in \*.docx format:
```bash
pandoc -S -o ../documents/agenascript-documentation.docx ../documents/epub_title.txt index.md handling_bars_and_instruments.md events.md strategy_programming.md keywords.md drawing_objects.md hints_and_advice.md
```

### Bugfixing links for images
If you are using *<img> tags* in your markdown file, mkdocs is creating wrong links for these images, so we need to change this by **replacing ./media/ to ../media/** manually.
Another option is to do this automatic by using **sed** on linux or macintosh:
```bash
sed -i .bak -e 's%./media/%../media/%g' site/drawing_objects/index.html  && rm site/drawing_objects/index.html.bak
sed -i .bak -e 's%./media/%../media/%g' site/events/index.html  && rm site/events/index.html.bak
sed -i .bak -e 's%./media/%../media/%g' site/handling_bars_and_instruments/index.html  && rm site/handling_bars_and_instruments/index.html.bak
sed -i .bak -e 's%./media/%../media/%g' site/hints_and_advice/index.html  && rm site/hints_and_advice/index.html.bak
sed -i .bak -e 's%./media/%../media/%g' site/keywords/index.html  && rm site/keywords/index.html.bak
sed -i .bak -e 's%./media/%../media/%g' site/strategy_programming/index.html  && rm site/strategy_programming/index.html.bak
```

## Short version on how to deploy
We have already created a branch called *gh-pages* and all data from this branch will be displayed on GitHub Pages.

### Commit your changes to master
Commit your changes into the master repository and sync with your remote repository.

### Build
Now we are ready to to execute the following shell script to *build the website* from our markdown files.
```bash
./buildanddeploy.sh -b
```

### Deploy
If the build process has finished, we can start to *deploy the website* to the gh-branch of our remote repository.
```bash
./buildanddeploy.sh -d
```

Congrats! We are done. All changes are now online on GitHub Pages.

Commit message:

added description on how to build and commit

README.md, after:

![AgenaTrader](./sources/images/logo_100.png)

# Live System
To get started, check out: [https://agenatrader.github.io/AgenaScript-documentation/index.html](https://agenatrader.github.io/AgenaScript-documentation/index.html)

# Documentation
MkDocs is a fast, simple and downright gorgeous static site generator that's geared towards building project documentation.
Documentation source files are written in [Markdown](https://guides.github.com/features/mastering-markdown/) format, and configured with a single YAML configuration file.
The tutorials in the sources directory of this repository, are built with mkdocs and publicly hosted on GitHub Pages at [https://agenatrader.github.io/AgenaScript-documentation/index.html](https://agenatrader.github.io/AgenaScript-documentation/index.html).

This description will show you how to create static websites and deploy it to the live system.

## Preparation
### Editor
To edit these files you can use the GitHub Online Editor but we recommend to use a separate text editor.
We recommend the text editor **Atom**. [You can download it here.](https://atom.io)

![Atom](./sources/images/logo_atom.png)

### Installation
The following things are prerequisites:
* Install [GitHub Client](https://desktop.github.com), create a GitHub user and checkout the repository
* Install [Pandoc](http://pandoc.org/installing.html)
* Install [Python](https://www.python.org/downloads/)
* Install Python package [mkdocs](http://www.mkdocs.org) using pip

After the installation of all packages we are able to start to parse our data and to deploy our site.

# Getting Started
Clone the master repository to your local computer.
Now that we have everything right in place, we are going to modify files and deploy the new site.
In the following you will see a detailed description on how to build and deploy data into the gh-pages site.
If you have no time just go directly to [Short version on how to deploy](#short-version-on-how-to-deploy)

## Detailed description
### Create branch gh-pages
You just need to do the following step if the gh-pages branch was not created before.
Our static website will be displayed via the gh-pages branch. So we need to create the branch by using the following commands via command line.
```bash
git checkout master # you can avoid this line if you are in master
git subtree split --prefix output -b gh-pages # create a local gh-pages branch containing the splitted output folder
git push -f origin gh-pages:gh-pages # force the push of the gh-pages branch to the remote gh-pages branch at origin
git branch -D gh-pages # delete the local gh-pages
```

### Parsing markdown to static website
All documents in this repository are written in markdown format and stored in the sources directory of this repository.
To parse these markdown files into static websites we need mkdocs to do this work for us. mkdocs will parse these markdown files, translate it into static websites and store it into the site directory.
All configuration is done in a single [YAML configuration file](mkdocs.yml) to configure the parsing process.
Open Console, navigate to your YAML configuration file and build the markdown files using the mkdocs build command.
```bash
mkdocs build
```
This will create a new directory named *site*.
If you are getting a warning that the *site directory* has already created, you can use the `clean` parameter to delete this directory before recreation.
```bash
mkdocs build --clean
```

### Parsing markdown to ebook (epub)
Now open the documents folder and modify the release date in the **epub_title.txt file**.
Afterward go to your source folder, open a console and create an ebook in \*.epub format:
```bash
pandoc -S --epub-cover-image=../documents/epub_cover.png --epub-stylesheet=../documents/epub_styles.css -o ../documents/agenascript-documentation.epub ../documents/epub_title.txt index.md handling_bars_and_instruments.md events.md strategy_programming.md keywords.md drawing_objects.md hints_and_advice.md
```

### Validate ebook (epub)
We recommend to validate the ebook using **pagina EPUB-Checker**. [You can download it here.](http://www.pagina-online.de/produkte/epub-checker/#c773)

### Parsing markdown to word file
Move to your source folder, open a console and create a Word document in \*.docx format:
```bash
pandoc -S -o ../documents/agenascript-documentation.docx ../documents/epub_title.txt index.md handling_bars_and_instruments.md events.md strategy_programming.md keywords.md drawing_objects.md hints_and_advice.md
```

### Bugfixing links for images
If you are using *<img> tags* in your markdown file, mkdocs is creating wrong links for these images, so we need to change this by **replacing ./media/ to ../media/** manually.
Another option is to do this automatic by using **sed** on linux or macintosh:
```bash
sed -i .bak -e 's%./media/%../media/%g' site/drawing_objects/index.html  && rm site/drawing_objects/index.html.bak
sed -i .bak -e 's%./media/%../media/%g' site/events/index.html  && rm site/events/index.html.bak
sed -i .bak -e 's%./media/%../media/%g' site/handling_bars_and_instruments/index.html  && rm site/handling_bars_and_instruments/index.html.bak
sed -i .bak -e 's%./media/%../media/%g' site/hints_and_advice/index.html  && rm site/hints_and_advice/index.html.bak
sed -i .bak -e 's%./media/%../media/%g' site/keywords/index.html  && rm site/keywords/index.html.bak
sed -i .bak -e 's%./media/%../media/%g' site/strategy_programming/index.html  && rm site/strategy_programming/index.html.bak
```

## Short version on how to deploy
We have already created a branch called *gh-pages* and all data from this branch will be displayed on GitHub Pages.

### Commit changes
Create a commit and send all of your changes into the master repository and sync with your remote repository.

### Build
Now we are ready to to execute the following shell script to *build the website* from our markdown files.
```bash
./buildanddeploy.sh -b
```

### Commit build
It is time to commit the new build into the master repository.
Create a commit, send all of your changes into the master repository and sync with your remote repository.

### Deploy
If the build process has finished, we can start to *deploy the website* to the gh-branch of our remote repository.
```bash
./buildanddeploy.sh -d
```

Congrats! We are done. All changes are now online on GitHub Pages.
